(upbeat music)
- Hello everyone, I'm Danny Roddy of DannyRoddy.com
and today I'm talking with painter, philosopher,
biologist, Raymond Peat.
In this hour long episode, we'll talk about calcium
as the cause and solution to many health problems,
why an excess of phosphorus is a serious source of stress,
in addition to talking about libertarianism,
the power elite's obsession with eugenics,
and the prominent role of CIA fascist spymaster,
Allen Dulles, in shaping the world we live in today.
In addition to thanking Ray for talking with me today,
I'd like to thank my patrons for making this show
and all the content I produce possible.
If you would like to become a patron,
please go to patreon.com/dannyrowdy.
Ray's newsletter is available by email now.
It's $28 for a total of six newsletters
delivered bi-monthly and you can subscribe
by sending $28 to raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
As always, please do your own research
and come to your own conclusions
and in the spirit of William Blake,
the true method of knowledge is experiment.
Without further ado, here's the show.
(upbeat music)
- But maybe if I could just read you this Adele Davis quote
that you had in your calcium article as a starter,
but she says, "It is extremely important to realize
"that calcium deposits in soft tissues
"become worse when the diet is low in calcium.
"Persons suffering from arthritis, bursitis, scleroderma,
"hardening of the arteries, and any abnormality
"where calcium deposits or spurs may cause pain
"are often afraid to eat foods rich in calcium.
"Actually, they can never improve
"until their calcium and magnesium intakes are adequate,
"and that inspired my email to you
"about doing this episode of,"
I think you had mentioned it in some podcast,
"of the idea that calcium is not only the solution
"to many of the health problems,
"but it's also the cause of many of the health problems."
And so I think maybe that gets into David McCarron's work,
but I thought that was like a interesting concept
that was probably of fundamental importance to understand.
- Yeah, and that was 50 years ago
that she wrote that, at least.
And that's just horrifying to see
how the medical journals now,
about 80 or 90% of the people talking about calcium,
at least 90%, completely miss that information
that she had back in 1960.
- And you think that's possibly an extension
of just this incorrect view of the cell?
Is that how they are getting it so wrong?
- Yeah, I don't think she knew anything about Gilbert Ling,
but she did read that that's the difference.
She was reading stuff in general
and just accumulating information.
That is what you have to conclude,
even without knowing the principles
of the gel nature of cytoplasm and how gels work,
what pH does to a gel and its affinity for minerals.
But that work had been going on for 20 or 30 years
before Gilbert Ling wrote his stuff.
And so it was in the culture and people just staying awake,
just like Adele Davis accumulated it by reading nutrition.
- You frequently mention David McCarron
and reference his articles,
and he has a slew of articles
in I think the late '80s and '90s.
Was his work not respected or was it not acknowledged?
- He got fired from California University,
I think UC Berkeley, and went to Oregon,
where they were too backward to see how dangerous he was.
- And the dangerous message
was the calcium antihypertensive effect?
- Yeah, stop talking about salt
and giving people diuretics.
The medical business had been killing them
already for 30 years.
And when he said that it's calcium deficiency,
not sodium excess,
and they had to fire him and send him to the backwoods.
- You mentioned the gel-like nature of the cell.
Can I read you a little summary of the cell,
and then you can stop me if I'm horribly wrong?
It's very simple,
but it might be good just to nail down some things
or like terms or a glossary.
So if there's sufficient thyroid,
ATP is the final end product
of the food materials we consume.
The healthy resting state, ATP polarizes a cell,
meaning that it sustains the protein water solute structure,
preferentially absorbing potassium and magnesium
and naturally excluding sodium and calcium.
And then the depletion of ATP
leads to the depolarized state where a cell is vulnerable.
And then the depletion of ATP,
it also breaks down into ADP,
like a lower energy molecule.
And you lose the complex of magnesium with ATP,
and you also lose phosphate.
And then the ADP complexes with calcium.
And then this is the general state
that leads to the reductive stress,
the low carbon dioxide, the high lactic acid,
and then the shift in the intracellular
and extracellular pH.
- And meanwhile, things are streaming,
oxygen and sugar are streaming in,
and CO2 is streaming out,
dragging the unnecessary minerals with it.
- The switch between the polarized and depolarized,
is that a natural phenomenon,
or should a cell not necessarily need to shift
into that disorderly water depolarized state?
- Gilbert Ling showed that when he poisoned
the energy producing systems, glycolysis and oxidation,
that cells retained their polarization
for longer than 24 hours,
just sitting there essentially dead.
And meanwhile, sodium and calcium were bouncing in the cell
and bouncing right back out again,
so they kept their polarization despite the motion
across the surface and into the near regions
of the cytoplasm and then back out.
- I haven't looked at that paper for a long time.
It was always semi confusing,
because if he's doing a stress test
or energy depletion of the cell,
how is it not becoming depolarized?
- He didn't excite them, he kept them quiet.
And they were reptile cells that could stand being cold,
so he kept them cold so that there wasn't
depletion of the energy.
The energy just stayed there, stuck to the proteins.
- I had written to him a long time ago,
asking him about carbon dioxide as a cardinal adsorbent.
I think he had mentioned that more research was needed
or something similar.
But you see the carbon dioxide as something essential
for maintaining the resting living state or the polarized.
- Yeah, I asked him something about carbon dioxide
about 25 years ago, and he described an experiment
he had done in graduate school
that exactly answered my question.
It explained what they call the lactate paradox
of high altitude, where you can work full speed
at high altitude without producing lactic acid
the way you would at low altitude.
And he did it in the lab, basically,
showing that cells don't fully depolarize
even when they're stimulated and working
if they have a good supply of carbon dioxide.
So in the lab, he showed the CO2
was preventing full depolarization,
and that's why you see it at high altitude.
You don't depolarize enough to shift from oxidation
to lactic acid production.
- I think somewhere you said that frequently depolarized
cells can lead to this pathology of being killed
in the process or the excitotoxicity and cancer, basically.
- Yeah, the cell depends on, at first,
using its internal glycogen to get the sugar
it needs to produce carbon dioxide.
And if that's depleted, then it starts using
any amino acids or fatty acids to oxidize,
and they produce less carbon dioxide
and will turn on the wasteful process
of producing lactic acid, and that starts a vicious circle.
- The fats producing less carbon dioxide
is one of the aspects of that, the pyruvate decarboxylation,
'cause that produces some CO2,
and something about oxygen economy or something?
- Yeah, the carbohydrates carry their own oxygen.
Each carbon already has part of the carbon dioxide,
where with fat, you have to start with molecular oxygen.
There's no oxygen built into the fat molecule.
You use the oxygen to produce the carbon dioxide
for each atom of carbon in the fat,
where with carbohydrate, you use only half
of the oxygen molecule, because there's already
one oxygen atom attached to the carbon.
- It's funny, there was a large ketogenic diet person
on a very popular podcast, and I think the interviewer
was like, "What else are you researching right now?"
And it was something about carbon dioxide.
And so it was just funny to see his whole lifestyle,
ketogenic diets was like the antithesis
of his newfound interest in carbon dioxide.
- Oh, yeah.
- I wanted to ask you a little bit about magnesium.
I found a little snippet.
Do you remember Andrew Kim, very smart gentleman
that basically left the internet?
So Andrew had written, "Magnesium or potassium
is needed to form the phosphorylated ATPase
that then, upon exposure to calcium or sodium,
transfers a phosphate group to ADP, generating ATP."
So in short, magnesium helps to retain and generate ATP.
And then you had called magnesium
the basic protective calcium blocker.
- Yeah.
- Was he right in what he said?
Do you agree with that?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Okay.
(laughs)
The reason why I mentioned magnesium is a lot of times
you talk about something like calcium,
and then there's an immediate need to interject
with how much more important magnesium is than calcium.
- Yeah, and at the same time you're making ATP,
you're subtracting some phosphate, inorganic phosphate,
from in that environment to get rid of
its excitatory effect.
- The breakdown of ATP can increase
the intracellular phosphate, but is the same thing occurring
when a person is just eating way more phosphate
than sodium and magnesium and calcium?
- Similar, it tends to push it in.
And fructose has the property of lowering
intracellular phosphate.
And the phosphatases are very cell protective in general.
Getting the proteins unphosphorylated
puts them into the resting state.
When you stick a phosphate onto a protein covalently,
it tends to change its whole behavior.
The whole cell goes into the excited state.
But even before it gets there, gets attached enzymically,
it's pulling the water system away from the resting state.
So my interpretation of muscle contraction
or nerve excitation isn't that there is some little motor
that runs on the so-called high energy bond.
The way they usually picture it is that the energy
from the so-called high energy bond
goes into some kind of a motor.
And that's what is happening rather than the parts
that are left behind.
But one of my good professors, Sidney Bernhardt,
I mentioned that in 1959 I saw that he had shown
that there is no high energy bond in ATP.
And I said, "Why does everyone talk
"about the high energy bond?"
A famous guy from England had just been
at the university that week.
And he never said very much, but he said,
"Not everyone does."
- Well, Gilbert says it in his 2001 book.
He says, "Scow presented his sodium pump hypothesis.
"Podolsky and Morales demonstrated
"that the high energy phosphate bond concept
"was in serious trouble."
- Yeah, it was in '59 it was killed by Sidney Bernhardt.
- But I mean, it's still common talk today, correct?
- Yeah, yeah, horrifyingly.
It makes you miss the whole thing that's happening,
which is that you don't want that free phosphate
messing up your water system.
- Sorry if I missed it.
It's interfering with the ordering of the water,
the differentiation between what you called the wild
or the bulk water and the orderly oriented water.
But what is it doing to specifically de-energize the cell?
You said it was excitotoxic.
Is that increasing some messenger or something
to de-energize the mitochondria?
- No messenger, just the whole system changes
the way it's lined up.
Like if you have a bunch of soldiers lined up in rows
and then you say, "Given order,"
and suddenly the whole thing melts
and there's no longer any rows,
that's sort of a whole phase transition is what's happening.
And that's the problem with the receptor idea
that everything to some extent is a receptor.
When you have a thousand different things
getting ordered differently when it's in one state
than in the other, the order that has been kept
in the proper positions melts as a whole process,
not as a series of isolated processes.
- Okay, so it sounds like I'm thinking about
phosphate a little too simply.
- Yeah, like melting water or anything or freezing it.
You can cool water well below zero degree Celsius
and still have liquid water.
But given the right trigger, suddenly all of the molecules
can cooperate in such a way that they freeze up.
- So you could call phosphate like a depolarizer,
basically, in excess?
- Yeah.
- And then that would lead to the cell
just having to make the choice of dying or being killed.
- Yeah, if it can't find its internal resources
of ideally the glycogen and oxygen,
if something cuts off its oxygen and glucose supply,
then it starts eating itself
and it's in danger of disintegrating.
And it can do that in more or less organized ways.
If it's taken by surprise, it can dump its innards out
in very distressing ways.
But if it is gradual enough that it is deprived of energy,
then it can get itself organized
so that it makes its internal materials available
to other parts of the organism.
So when you're exercising one set of muscles,
if you go about it gradually, you can build those up
and not subtract too much from the others
because you're feeding what they need.
But if you are very intense in your exercise,
if it's stressful, then the cortisol gets the material
by shutting off the oxygen sugar use in idle cells,
causing them to slowly release their material
that can be used by the active cells to build them up.
So stress hormones partly are there
to prevent toxic death of cells,
make it an orderly disintegration
that can help the other parts of the organism.
- What you just said reminded me of a Selye quote
where he was saying that everything
is being affected equally,
but there is like a weakest link somewhere in there
that can lead to some specific pathology.
Do you think that's the right idea?
- Yeah, it's the working system.
It's an adaptive process that feeds support
into the system that's working and functioning.
The idea of the functional system,
it includes the way your brain is working too.
Habits are sort of a functional system.
You integrate your thoughts and your digestive processes
and your muscle activities around a way of living,
and that supports that pattern.
So you tend to get in a rut
if you don't have things to interrupt
and give you a more general way of functioning.
- The brain is what is it born into the culture
and then the culture lives in the nervous system.
And then Maslow said something like
the culture should be like an adaptive tool.
And so that being essential in a person's reactivity
to certain stresses.
- Yeah, the social system should be intelligent basically,
and then it wouldn't degrade the participants in it.
But when the social system is designed unintelligently,
it's participating in the degrading process.
(laughing)
Maslow said it a lot more elegantly.
- Well, I always like reading your stuff
and I'll see something from Maslow
or I'll see something from Rogers,
and it will make me understand your work
a little bit better.
- I had been reading "Freud and the Freudians"
for six months when I found Maslow's book.
It was a tremendous experience just the way he spoke.
- Was he thought of as like crackpot at the time?
'Cause I haven't found anything
that I haven't liked about him so far.
- Yeah, he was a great irritant to the Freudians
who were still there and the new behaviorists
were coming on and they didn't think
he was at all scientific.
- Do you feel similarly about Rogers?
I know you had a criticism about him.
- Yeah, his approach was great for the union breakers.
They immediately saw that and one of his collaborators
on the book, "The Sciences of Man," I think it was called,
his co-author said that his approach
was good for the tobacco industry.
So was Selye, Selye was a cigarette promoter,
but Rogers, his first book, "Client-Centered Therapy,"
the back part of it gives the philosophical basis.
It's a very good description of phenomenology.
It's philosophically very good,
but it can be made bad use of by bad people.
- So if I understand what you're saying,
the bad part about it, not wanting to--
- Not wanting to attack and criticize.
- Okay, and is that a bad part of "Client-Centered Therapy"
because, I mean, he wasn't interjecting.
- Yeah, Maslow would just butt in and say,
(laughing)
you're feeling messed up because you're dealing
with a horrible situation and just get out of that situation.
- To play devil's advocate, somebody might be like,
well, that's an authoritarian way of approaching things.
- But a direct way of being anti-authoritarian
can look authoritarian, but it isn't.
And actually, the super anti-authoritarian Rogers followers
end up leaving the authoritarians in place.
- Well, that's kind of funny.
I swear I'm not obsessed with libertarianism,
but it seems like they say, we're not authoritarian,
so we're gonna get rid of the government
and then break up into these small groups.
- Yeah, that's the Koch brothers and their ilk.
They pose as anti-authoritarians, libertarians,
because they want to have absolute power.
They really would like to own the government,
but if people still insist on voting and things,
then they want to break up the government entirely
and then have their own governing system.
- And they want all types of different "freedom,"
except they don't want economic freedom.
- Yeah, they want the army
and their way of controlling the money system.
- There was a website called,
I think it was the Naked Capitalism,
and they had a series of articles
called "Journey into a Libertarian Future."
And the series was satirical,
but they were using real quotes from a person,
I think the name was Hans Hermann Hoppe.
And it was enlightening,
not only because a lot of the libertarians I'm aware of
seem to be genetic determinists,
but the author was also,
he seemed to have a misanthropic contempt for humanity
and using phrases, I think, like a natural authority
and favoring the elite.
So it was just a pretty eye-opening of something
that I used to consider to be very anti-authoritarian.
- Have you read any of Murray Bookchin's books or articles?
- No, no.
- He was a good libertarian compared to the Koch type.
- You had mentioned Joe Rahman, antiwar.com,
Joe Romano, maybe?
- Oh, yeah, yeah.
Those are pretty good libertarians.
They don't want to kill everyone.
(laughing)
They consider themselves the archaic conservatives.
I forget the term,
but they're the old-fashioned conservatives
who actually believe in freedom
rather than freedom to control everyone else.
- Something else libertarians often talk about
is the non-aggression principle.
That might sound good just at face value,
but based on Han Selye's or your work of stress,
the non-aggression principle really doesn't make any sense
when you stress a person to fight for their survival.
And if you have to provide for yourself or your family
or you or your family are gonna die,
who cares about the non-aggression principle?
- Yeah, there's the reality problem.
- Okay, do you want to switch gears a little bit
and talk about parathyroid hormone and serotonin
because you're the only person I know of
that makes the connection between the two.
And so what's happening exactly?
I know the low thyroid or hyperventilation
or too much estrogen and low thyroid
and an excess of estrogen
tend to promote the loss of carbon dioxide
and hyperventilation.
And that's causing the platelets are carrying the serotonin
that's primarily produced in the intestine
and the platelets are becoming leaky
and the serotonin is leaking out
and that's activating the parathyroid glands.
- Yeah, the place that that should be normal
is in lactation.
The serotonin turns on prolactin
and the prolactin is parallel to the parathyroid hormone.
Both of those break down the bone
to provide extra calcium for lactation.
So the serotonin works systematically
in a logical way to make milk.
But when hypothyroidism is the reason for excess serotonin,
hypothyroidism in itself,
because you're not producing very much carbon dioxide
by not using oxygen much,
any little exertion tends to use up your energy
and you have to then resort to glycolysis
and produce the lactic acid and inflammatory state.
And hypothyroid people run at a higher level
of histamine, serotonin, and usually adrenaline too.
Everything is using the emergency system unnecessarily.
Just a background state of a very hypothyroid person
is hyperventilating in the sense of running around
with those processes turned on.
So when they go to a higher altitude
and get even less oxygen and breathe faster,
their hyperventilation becomes visible.
But anyone, if they're driven to breathe faster
than they should, if they use up their carbon dioxide,
anything that makes you, like an inflammation
that produces lactic acid and serotonin
will turn on hyperventilation
and stop the adequate production of carbon dioxide.
And that sets in motion the things
like causing the platelets to release more serotonin
and the serotonin activating the prolactin
and parathyroid hormone.
It causes chronic breakdown of your bones.
- And something you had said
that I thought was super fascinating,
you said that you ideally, like in a Vernadskyian ideal state
where the organism was realized
in like a really good environment,
you would barely need your hormones.
And I was thinking about parathyroid hormone,
I was thinking about it too simplistically
of just being suppressed by calcium, potassium,
magnesium, or sodium.
But like you just said, the primary thing
holding it down is carbon dioxide.
And so if the atmosphere just spontaneously increased
in carbon dioxide, you would need less of your hormones
because they're having this adaptive function.
- Yeah, and an atmosphere rich in carbon dioxide
is gonna produce lots of sugary fruit
and make the diet easier to keep the carbohydrate up
as well as the atmosphere
keeping you from wasting your glucose.
- Is there much information on the Carboniferous period?
That's when the Earth had
an extremely high concentration of carbon dioxide?
- Yeah, there are lots of coal deposits
that show what was going on there.
- Wasn't there like a rapid evolutionary escalation?
- Yeah, just a burst of innovation biologically.
- Is that on a cycle?
Could something like that be estimated to occur
in the future sometime or?
- There are people working on the idea of cycles
of the Earth more or less coordinated
with cycles of the sun.
There are different opinions about whether you can have
an approximate idea of when that's going to happen.
But the smaller cycles, the ice ages,
are somewhat easier to see meaningful cycles in.
In 1940, the consensus was that a new ice age
was approaching.
The temperatures had been warming
in the first part of the century,
but it looked like they were now regressing.
And that opinion stuck around from 1940
when I was in high school.
It was in the magazines and such.
And as recently as 1974, '75, "Time" magazine
and "New York Times."
And then in 1979, another article in "New York Times."
They were talking about an oncoming ice age again
from 1940 to 1979.
But then a three-mile island scared people
about nuclear power.
And that scare scared the Pentagon
that they would lose their nuclear fuel for making bombs.
And almost immediately, they came out with a theory
that carbon dioxide was going to create a too hot planet.
No more talk about the ice age
that had been discussed for 35 years.
- I've actually, I've heard that before.
And somebody was detailing the transition between,
he called them the oiligarchs
or the Rockefeller Standard Oil,
have transitioned into the green movement.
And those are all the same people saying,
don't have children and humans are cancer on this planet.
And also saying things like the carbon dioxide is bad.
But they were detailing the transition
from being scared of global cooling
to this new fear of global warming.
- Yeah, people are a cancer
because now we have automation and don't need workers.
Where the Rockefeller Foundation,
starting in the early 1900s,
was pioneering disease prevention
because they needed healthy workers.
And now that there's automation,
it would be very economical to get rid
of about four or five billion workers.
- Upon watching that documentary,
they were talking about standard oil producing mustard gas
and then mustard gas being resynthesized into chemotherapy.
- Oh yeah, basically.
One of my favorite examples of research financing
was Elwood Jensen,
was a government financed chemical warfare person
working on things better than cyanide for killing people.
And the government transitioned him
right into working on estrogen.
And around that time,
estrogen became a big government as well as industry topic
with cancer institutes taking up the study of estrogen.
And Elwood Jensen invented the estrogen receptor.
The government gave him
the only radioactively labeled estrogen
to do his research with.
And using that, he said that there is no metabolism
of estrogen by the uterus.
So all you people studying enzymology
to explain how estrogen works, you're wrong.
It's just hitting the receptor, no metabolism.
It turns on the genes and the genes turn on femaleness.
And then 15 or 20 years later,
other people had access to the various isotopes
that they could show.
Yes, the uterus does metabolize estrogen,
but meanwhile, everyone had adopted the idea
of a receptor turning on genes.
- Do you think Elwood Jensen's research
was being guided by the hands of these eugenics fanatics?
- Yeah, I think the chemical warfare
and estrogen Pentagon people are all clearly doing that.
As a side light, they are seeing that inducing cancer
almost instantly can be a useful tool for the military.
- Well, I might as well mention it
'cause I've talked about it,
but it's James Corvette's "How Big Oil Conquered the World"
and then "Why Big Oil Conquered the World."
And he just very precisely documents
how obsessed the elite people were with eugenics
and how that was, and you've talked about it extensively,
and it just seems very deep rooted of the class system
of we're useless eaters and things like of that nature.
- Yeah, the whole genetics movement itself,
genetics, not eugenics, grew out of that motivation.
The original famous geneticists were also eugenicists,
and the Journal of Eugenics,
after Hitler became a target of scorn,
the eugenics journal changed its name to Human Genetics.
And just after I got my PhD,
I wrote an article in the graduate student newspaper
and mentioned that fact that the eugenics people
were still around, still teaching genetics,
but that they were embarrassed
and mentioned the Journal of Eugenics in the library.
That week, all of the old volumes disappeared.
(laughing)
- And not to go too off track,
but wasn't Hitler was funded
by one of the Dulles brothers or not just-
- No, no, they were his employees,
but on Standard Oil and several of the big banks,
the Bush family and some of the big Democrat,
I guess they were at times in the State Department,
but in the banks primarily,
they were financing the fascists
right into and through the war.
And as the war was declared,
Roosevelt's government declared that,
I think it was Alan Dulles was officially declared
a German enemy agent temporarily,
but then very shortly after that,
he was put into the secret service or the OSS,
I think it was called, and then the CIA,
and his brother put into the State Department.
And if you look at the whole 10 or 15 years history
of how those corporate powers were treating Roosevelt,
in 1933, they had organized a coup
and they recruited a Marine Corps General,
Smedley Butler, to lead the army into Washington
to put him out of office.
And he gathered information as they were communicating
between the corporations
through intermediaries with Butler.
And he took the information to Congress and said,
"Look, these big corporations are planning a coup."
Congress investigated and confirmed what he said,
but then did nothing.
After 12 more years,
they were influential in putting Truman in
as vice president in place of Henry Wallace,
because Wallace had gone on record
as favoring a continuation of Roosevelt's anti-war policies.
Alan Dulles was, meanwhile,
in charge of European negotiations.
He, just a week or two before Roosevelt's death,
Alan Dulles was secretly and against instructions
agreed upon by Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin.
Alan Dulles was making deals with the Nazis
to have the Nazis not fight the Americans
and to go fight the Russians.
Truman heard about it and said,
"That information must be false
"because no one would do that."
Stalin heard about it first,
and that was how Roosevelt heard about it,
but Stalin just has no judgment
to think that could happen.
And then, within a few days,
Roosevelt conveniently died
before he had to accuse Dulles of the treason
he was involved in.
Alan Dulles then made deals
with the German intelligence apparatus
and unified the US intelligence system
with the Nazi system,
and that's what has set the course of history.
- I guess there was a story about Alan Dulles's son,
who, I guess, was having some psychotic problem
or alleged psychotic problem,
and he would say things like, "My dad is a Nazi spy,"
and the author of wherever I had read this said,
but he never said that again
after they gave him his anti-psychotic medication.
(both laughing)
- Probably hurt so much.
- But the person, I think Tarpley said this,
that possibly had poisoned Roosevelt
was the painter woman.
Do you have any perspective on that?
- Oh, yeah, there was talk about the inhalant
that he used while he was being painted,
just putting a little too much benzadrine
or something in the inhalant.
He sniffed it, held his head,
and had an excruciating pain in his head
after sniffing his inhalant,
and then that inhalant disappeared.
- I had never heard that connection
between Dulles and Roosevelt,
and so he's very implicated
in two high-profile presidential assassinations.
- Oh, yeah, and have you heard any of the connections
of Lee Harvey Oswald's landlady and DeMoran Schilt?
Lee Harvey Oswald's landlady
who was working with DeMoran Schilt,
who was a 35-year associate of Dulles,
they were both helping Lee Harvey Oswald get jobs
like in the convenient book building in Dallas,
and his landlady was a very close family friend
of the Dulles'.
Both of the people managing his movements
for the last few months of his life
were close longtime associates of Alan Dulles'.
- When you're going through life
and you're hearing these certain things,
are you just wondering what's really going on?
When you're hearing that Kennedy was assassinated
and things like that?
- No, my first thought was that Kennedy was such a bad man.
No wonder.
(laughing)
But then, immediately within a week or so,
I realized it was a coup
for putting an even worse man in office.
- And something, I think Douglas, no, no,
maybe Tarbly said, but we don't know
who the new Alan Dulles is right now,
but he's certainly, I mean, maybe you do,
but he certainly set a precedent of things to come
which are still, I guess, unraveling right now.
- Yeah, Alan Dulles started associating
with that banker by politician crowd
when he was about 10 years old.
So he had real skill and background
in how to maneuver through the political criminal world.
And I don't think there's anyone
with such a extreme international
social background operating.
So I think there are basically a lot of klutzes.
- I only have a single other question to ask you.
I get the feeling, and I could be wrong,
from reading, occasionally being privy to various responses,
like the best page, I feel like, on the Ray Peate Forum
is the link to your email wiki,
which people compile your responses,
which I think can be very valuable.
And it seems like occasionally you've mentioned
that pregnenolone, progesterone, and DHEA,
and/or thyroid aren't as effective
if the vitamin D and/or calcium are low.
And my question was, I know that PTH
can inhibit mitochondrial respiration,
but is it such a powerful break on the metabolism
that getting the vitamin D and the calcium
or carbon dioxide in order would just be important
for having these other things work effectively?
- You have to include sodium
and a lot of other things in there,
but yeah, it's one of the adequate breaks on the system.
- Is that because of the specific actions
of parathyroid hormone, or is it because it causes
mast cells to release serotonin and other things like that?
- Yeah, it's part of a system,
so in itself is very powerful.
The vitamin D and calcium are working on other things too,
and so you can't say that they're only working
on the parathyroid hormone.
They work on the serotonin and proactin and growth hormone,
essentially everything in themselves to different degrees.
- When I think about like introing somebody
into like a lot of this information,
it seems relatively easy to go get your vitamin D measured
and then to use it.
I guess, is that something you feel comfortable
like consulting to large amounts of random people?
It seems like something fairly safe to talk about.
- Yeah.
- Okay, Ray, that's all I had for you.
Hey, you know what?
Do you want to touch on progesterone real quick?
I know that just online there was a general confusion
where people were misconstruing things about progesterone
that you might wanna clear up.
- Oh, yeah.
People have been saying completely imaginary things.
I imagine someone wanting to sell a product
other than Progest-E complex must have made them up
because they have no connection to reality.
That I had nothing to do with the Progest-E formula.
It's exactly the formula that I developed in 1976
and has been exactly the same thing all these years.
But people have been saying
that they added estrogenic substances to it.
A lot of people saying that they get estrogen symptoms.
It is the usual internet placebo,
negative placebo suggestibility.
But the story that formula has changed,
it seems to have been repeatedly promoted
on some of the internet discussion places.
- Lastly, can we just touch on a tiny bit
on why somebody might have a strange reaction to progesterone?
Like you mentioned that when estrogen is being eliminated,
it can pass through an inflamed tissue
and then the tissue can contain a large amounts
of beta-glucuronidase
and that will remove the glucuronic acid
leaving pure estrogen to accumulate in the tissues.
It's not unheard of that somebody similar to thyroid
or anything that's safe,
it depends on the system it's going into.
And if the person is extremely estrogenic.
- Except that when you're talking about a whole system,
the progesterone is also protecting
against the inflamed system with its beta-glucuronidase.
And so it's tending to stop that process too.
So the more you take,
basically the more stable everything is.
It inhibits the glucuronidase and the sulfatase
which reactivate estrogen
and it activates the transferases of sulfate
and glucuronide to inactivate estrogen.
And it has a similarly organized effect
on the various dehydrogenases
that reduce the activity of estradiol
and the opposing systems.
It has the same protective effect
on preventing the activation of estrone back to estradiol.
So everything progesterone does in reference to estrogen,
there are at least 11 things that I've counted
that it consistently, everywhere you look,
is anti-estrogenic.
So I think it's all a suggestibility.
One of the first times I experienced that
was a pregnant woman said progesterone
was having some strange effect
and I asked her how much she had taken.
And she said she put it on her wrist,
a dime-sized area on her wrist.
And she had heard about transdermal use
of scopolamine or such thing for travel sickness.
And she was putting one drop in one spot
and thinking it should have an effect.
If you take a minuscule amount
and then look at your symptoms,
you're bound to notice some symptom
that has nothing to do with the microscopic amount
you've absorbed.
- So besides not taking enough,
which you've detailed in your progesterone summaries article,
I think you've also mentioned things like
thyroid function being too low
and/or vitamin D deficiency could cause those symptoms,
not necessarily because of the progesterone,
but because of these other inflammatory aspects
that the person is already dealing with.
- Yeah, one person said she had no effect
from taking 100 milligrams,
a fourth of a teaspoon of the progeste
and asked her to repeat the dose.
If she took as much as 400 milligrams a teaspoon
and still didn't feel anything.
And when she had her blood tested,
her estrogen was the highest I've ever seen.
It was 100 times higher than the estrogen should have been.
And when your estrogen reaches a certain point,
there's no absorptive capacity,
no carrying capacity into the blood
that can carry enough progesterone to have an effect.
And for those people,
it's necessary to work on the liver,
feeding the liver protein or B vitamins,
whatever it needs to start detoxifying the estrogen
and increase the thyroid if necessary
to make the liver metabolize the estrogen.
- Well, similarly, I remember you saying
that if you were drinking milk or orange juice,
presuming that the orange juice was sweet
and not tart or sour, that it could cause,
or some people will say like, oh, it really bloats me.
And in my experience,
and my experience was made more clear by you saying
that, oh, sometimes when you drink liquids,
it makes inflammation in the intestine more noticeable.
I thought that was really profound
because not only did I feel like
I really had experienced it,
but many people will say similar things.
And I think it's maybe just speaking
to the prevalency of intestinal inflammation.
- Yeah, and the word bloat has various meanings.
Some people who have one or two ounces of liquid
around their intestines verified by ultrasound or such,
just a small amount of fluid in the abdominal cavity
can create a sensation of fullness.
And some people refer to that as bloat
or an enlarged uterus.
Some people feel bloated.
But when it's digestive,
if you aren't digesting your carbohydrate,
the bacteria can produce a large amount of gas.
And the usual traditional meaning of bloat
was accumulated gas.
And the test for that is just to thump your belly
with your fingers.
You can tap it in different places
and find exactly where there's a gas deposit if there is.
- I think that's all the questions I have for you.
What are you working on right now, Ray?
- Cholesterol and then progesterone
will be my next newsletters.
Thinking about the evolutionary, in every sense,
implications and meaning of cholesterol and progesterone.
- Awesome, you have been so generous with your time.
My sincere thanks.
Thank you so much, Ray.
It's always a pleasure and I'll talk to you soon.
- Okay, thanks.
(upbeat music)
- That's gonna conclude this week's episode.
I'd like to thank Ray again for talking with me today
along with my patrons for their support of the show
and all the content I produce.
If I didn't have patrons, I couldn't do any of this.
So I sincerely appreciate it.
As always, if you enjoyed the show,
please hit the like button on YouTube
and leave a comment or a constructive criticism below.
I always say this, but I have an amazing listenership
and I'm extremely fortunate for anybody
to care about anything that I do.
This show was extremely fun for me
and it just seemed like a nice free flowing conversation.
It's actually the second conversation that we had done.
I first got Ray on the phone and we talked about calcium.
Then I had to fill in some gaps with that show
and I got him on the phone again.
And I liked the second conversation so much better
that I decided to go with that one.
I will probably release snippets from the first show
just to tie everything together.
But really thanks to Ray for getting on the phone with me
twice and bearing with me through these questions.
So thank you so much, Ray.
And thanks again for listening.
I'll talk to you guys soon.
(upbeat music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]